Hello this is Kirill  and welcome back to
the advanced course on Tableau and before
we proceed with today's tutorial I
thought it would be nice to pause for a
second and take a step back to really
appreciate all the wonderful things that
we have created so far. So here on the
screen you can see all of the visuals
that we've created to date in the basic
tableau course and in the advanced Tableau
course and even though we can only
just see a small snippet or preview of
each single visual they already look
pretty amazing just on this one page and
if you think about it even more than
every single one of these visuals is a
separate data set a separate piece of
analysis but most importantly separate
story which we were able to convey to
our audience and personally I think that
that is just simply amazing it's is
pretty incredible all the work we've
done so far and I really want you guys
to be proud of yourselves
you're definitely doing great job and I
hope you're learning a lot because at
the end of the day you'll be using all
this knowledge to deliver your own
projects and delivery own insights and
hopefully make the world a bit of a
better place.
So those are things that we've done so
far and ahead of us we've got more
interesting adventures.
Let's jump straight back into it. Today
we're talking about box plots. In fact
we're going to create our very first box
plot and in order to do that we're going
to obviously need to connect to the data
set first, so let's go ahead and select
text file and now let's select the
competitor research file which we
downloaded for this section.
Let's open that up, what we can see here
is a table that consists of intelligence
gathered on 30 of our competitors and
when I say intelligent I don't mean
corporate espionage in any way.
All that means is that an analyst from
our company did some research accessed
annual statements of these companies
which are available online and found out
their net profit margins which are
illustrated here for the previous
financial year and these companies they
all operate in a
four states in the four major state so
Queensland, Western Australia, Victoria
New South Whales so the same standards as
New South Wales and Queensland, Western
Australia, Victoria those are the states that we
are analyzing for a potential expansion.
Now we want to visualize this data
so that we can get some insights from it
how can we proceed with that? Well first
of all we can see right away that this
is not the best format for the data.
We know that we would rather have these
states as a separate column rather than
having them as names of columns and
we've already talked about pivoting
data previously in the base course on
Tableau. Well in this section we're going
to really expand on data preparation and
we'll learn some advanced techniques but
for now we're just going to refresh our
knowledge and will create a simple pivot.
So all we have to do is select these
four columns, click the drop-down over
here and pivot the data. What that gives us
is now the state is in its own column
and then we've got the pivoted values
over here, so much more machine friendly
format.
Let's go ahead and rename these fields
will just click the drop-down and say
rename to state and this one we're going
to rename to net profit margin.
Alright that's good, now let's proceed to
our sheet. Now what do we want to
visualize? Well what we want to see is
how these companies performing in
different states.
These are comparable companies to our
company and maybe that'll give us some
insights.
So let's go ahead and drag state into
columns now let's take their profit
margin and drag it into rows now of
course summing a net profit margin
makes absolutely no sense if anything
would want to get the average of the net
profit margin but what we're going to do
is we're actually going to disaggregate
this data and plot every single company
separately. So to disaggregate data were
you know how to do this we just go to
analysis and we uncheck this aggregate
measures option. Once that's unchecked, as
you can see we've got an interesting
chart over here to make it look better
before we proceed which is going to
change this to a circle and we're going
to reduce the size so it looks a bit
better
and one more thing that we are going to
do here is we're going to take state
hold down control and drag it into color. In
fact, I might make it a bit bigger so
there we go something like that and finally
I'm also going to format this and make
it a 10.
Perhaps as good and now what we also
want to do is change this to a
percentage because we know that our
data is stored in terms of
percentages.
There we go so what do we see here well
we see every single state separately and
we can see how every single one of these
companies is performing in terms of net
profit margin in each one of these
states and as you can imagine since
there are 30 competitors and their 40
states they should be a hundred and
twenty marks over here in total. If we go
down to the bottom, you'll see that
there's a hundred twenty marks which is
correct. Now how can we drive inside from
here right away? You can kind of see sum
things from here that perhaps by
New South Wales you've got like the
highest maximum and kill D I wasn't
ready but those are just insights that
are very very low-level insights we want
to get into detail and we want to
understand exactly one some
statistically significant insights which
we can rely upon. Now in order to do that,
we're going to perform some analytics.
We're going to create a box plot and the
plan is that we today we're going to
create the box plot and in the next
tutorial we will learn how to analyze
the box plot and how to derive insights
from it. So to create a box plot, we're
going to go to analytics over here and
we're going to take box plot and we'll
just drag it onto the chart as you can
see this window appears which says add a
box plot and you only have one option
here cell so let's drag that into there
and there you go
our box plots have been created for us.
Now what I wanted to mention in this
tutorial as well is that this analytics
pane is actually new in Tableau nine. It
was introduced in version 9 of the
software and it's got some very
interesting and powerful features which
we will be looking at in this section. So
we'll be working quite a
bit with this analytics pane, as you saw
we just create a boxplot. It's got some
trend lines, forecast, distribution
bands. So we'll talk about quite a lot of
the features in here and I'll also show
you other ways that you can access these
features but just bear in mind that it
is there and if you want to go back to
data all you have  to do is click the data tab
over here and then you can go back to
analytics tab. So that's all for today,
this was a quick tutorial to get us
started into the section and next time
we're going to learn how to analyze
these box plots and derive inside. I look
forward to seeing you next time. Until then, happy
analyzing.